What you may do with a NeoWaves build

NeoWaves's own source code is MIT licensed and may be used commercially.
Third-party components retain their own terms; this notice records how the
released Windows build satisfies the terms that require action.

THE SHORT VERSION
-----------------

  * NeoWaves's own code is MIT. See LICENSE.
  * MP3 export uses LAME 3.100 as a separate, user-replaceable shared library.
    LAME is covered by the LGPL; it is not incorporated into neowaves.exe.
  * No AAC codec is shipped. No Fraunhofer FDK AAC code and no Symphonia AAC
    decoder are in the dependency graph. AAC audio is decoded only by the
    decoder the operating system already provides, and AAC encoding is not
    supported at all.
  * MPL-2.0 dependencies such as Symphonia and option-ext are commercially
    usable file-level copyleft. If their source files are modified, those
    modified files must remain available under MPL-2.0.
  * No strong-copyleft GPL/AGPL application dependency is shipped.

HOW LGPL-2.0 SECTION 6 IS SATISFIED
-----------------------------------

MP3 export calls libmp3lame through NeoWaves's own small MIT-licensed FFI.
`build.rs` compiles the unmodified LAME 3.100 source under
`vendor/lame-3.100` into libmp3lame.dll, and the installer places that DLL next
to neowaves.exe.

  Section 6(b) permits a suitable shared-library mechanism that uses a copy of
  the Library already present on the system and operates properly with a
  compatible modified version. neowaves.exe imports libmp3lame.DLL, which
  remains a separate file in the installation directory. No signature or
  version lock stops an ABI-compatible replacement.

The LAME use acknowledgement, project link, copyright and full LGPL-2.0 text
are in README.md, THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.txt and Help > Licenses.

NeoWaves is MIT licensed and therefore imposes no restriction on reverse
engineering changes needed to debug such a replacement. The exact
corresponding LAME source shipped in the DLL is committed under
`vendor/lame-3.100` in the public NeoWaves source repository. Keep that source
available for every distributed binary for at least the period required by
the LGPL offer you make to recipients.

COMMERCIAL OR CLOSED-SOURCE DISTRIBUTION
----------------------------------------

The LGPL does not require an application using a replaceable shared library to
publish the application's own source. A commercial distributor must still:

  * ship libmp3lame.dll as a replaceable file rather than folding it into the
    executable;
  * preserve the LAME/LGPL notices and full licence texts;
  * provide the exact corresponding LAME source (including any modifications);
  * not prohibit reverse engineering for debugging modifications to LAME.

This repository already supplies the technical pieces, but a distributor is
responsible for its own product terms and source-offer retention. This is a
technical compliance record, not legal advice. The software licence does not
itself grant patent or other third-party rights; distributors must assess
those rights in the jurisdictions where they distribute the product.

INSTALLER BUILD TOOL
--------------------

NSIS (Nullsoft Scriptable Install System) builds the Windows installer. It is a
build-time tool: nothing from NSIS is installed beside NeoWaves. The only NSIS
output that reaches anyone is the setup executable itself, which the user runs
once.

NSIS is licensed under the zlib/libpng licence, which grants permission to use
the software for any purpose, including commercial applications. No fee is
charged, none is requested, and an acknowledgement is welcomed but not
required.

The LZMA compression module NSIS uses is under the Common Public License
version 1.0, and its authors grant an explicit exception permitting code to be
linked or bound to that module without becoming subject to the CPL. Only
modifications to the module itself carry CPL terms. NeoWaves modifies no NSIS
module, so the generated installer takes on no obligation from it.

Nothing about the installer build tool has to be bought, negotiated or waived
before a commercial release of NeoWaves, and no build produced by this
repository is restricted to testing for that reason. The current terms:

    https://nsis.sourceforge.io/License

REDISTRIBUTED AND OPTIONAL NATIVE CODE
--------------------------------------

libmp3lame.dll is the codec DLL copied by the Windows installer. ONNX Runtime,
Oniguruma and SQLite remain linked into the executable and their notices are
also reproduced. DirectML is called from Windows and is not redistributed.

Cisco OpenH264 is behind the `video` feature and is off by default. The Windows
release uses Media Foundation for video pictures instead. Anyone enabling
`video` and redistributing that build must review Cisco's binary/patent terms
for their own distribution.

CODECS BORROWED FROM THE OPERATING SYSTEM
-----------------------------------------

Two formats are decoded by code that is part of Windows rather than part of
this product: AAC audio, and video pictures (H.264, HEVC and whatever else the
machine has). Both are reached through the documented Media Foundation API.
Nothing is redistributed, statically linked or bundled for either one, and the
installer copies no codec for them.

Where an operating system offers no such decoder, the format is reported as
unsupported instead of falling back to a bundled codec: an AAC video still
shows its picture on a silent timeline. That is the deliberate shape of the
arrangement, and it is why removing a decoder is a supported outcome rather
than a defect.

As stated above, a software licence does not itself grant patent rights. This
records only that no codec for these formats is distributed with NeoWaves.

BUILD WITHOUT MP3 EXPORT
------------------------

    cargo build --release --no-default-features \
        --features glow,plugin_native_vst3,plugin_native_clap

This removes LAME and MP3 export. MP3 decoding remains available through
Symphonia. No build carries an AAC codec; AAC audio decodes only through the
operating system's own decoder, as described above. This is an LGPL-free build,
not a claim that every dependency is permissive: MPL-2.0 components remain.

RELEASE CHECKLIST
-----------------

For every release, verify that libmp3lame.dll is beside neowaves.exe, the EXE's
import table names libmp3lame.DLL, LICENSE and THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.txt are in
the installer, and the committed licence snapshot matches Cargo.lock.
